# bignum

bignum is Arbitrary precision integer library for C.  

### API Specification

API specification of bignum is generated by Doxygen.  
Documentation can be run using `make docs`.  

#### Macros

Macro           | Description
--------------- | -----------
BIGNUM_INT_BITS | Size of element of magnitude, in bits. The default is 32.
BIGNUM_INT_T    | intN_t (N = BIGNUM_INT_BITS).
BIGNUM_UINT_T   | uintN_t (N = BIGNUM_INT_BITS).
BIGNUM_INT_MIN  | INTN_MIN (N = BIGNUM_INT_BITS).
BIGNUM_INT_MAX  | INTN_MAX (N = BIGNUM_INT_BITS).
BIGNUM_UINT_MAX | UINTN_MAX (N = BIGNUM_INT_BITS).

Macros other than the above are implementation details.  

#### Typedefs

Typedef        | Description
-------------- | -----------
bignum_int_t   | A signed integer of the same size as bignum_uint_t.
bignum_uint_t  | Element type of magnitude of bignum.
bignum_t       | Arbitrary precision integer object.
bignum_qr_t    | Division quotient and remainder.

Typedefs other than the above are implementation details.  

#### Functions

Function         | Description
---------------- | -----------
bignum_free      | Free the memory allocated to bignum.
bignum_0         | Returns the bignum zero.
bignum_from_int  | Returns a bignum whose value is equal to the specified signed integer.
bignum_from_uint | Returns a bignum whose value is equal to the specified unsigned integer.
bignum_from_hex  | Returns a bignum whose value is equal to the specified hexadecimal string.
bignum_from      | Returns a bignum whose value is equal to the specified bignum.
bignum_neg       | Computes the arithmetic sign inversion of bignum.
bignum_abs       | Computes the absolute value of bignum.
bignum_not       | Computes the bitwise negation of bignum.
bignum_shl       | Shifts bignum bit to the left.
bignum_shr       | Shifts bignum bit to the right.
bignum_and       | Computes the bitwise AND of two bignums.
bignum_or        | Computes the bitwise OR of two bignums.
bignum_xor       | Computes the bitwise XOR of two bignums.
bignum_add       | Computes the sum of two bignums.
bignum_sub       | Computes the difference between two bignums.
bignum_mul       | Computes the product of two bignums.
bignum_div       | Computes the quotient and remainder of two bignums.
bignum_cmp       | Compares two bignums for order.
bignum_eq        | Compares two bignums for equality.
bignum_is_0      | Compares if bignum is zero.
bignum_to_dec    | Returns the decimal string representation of bignum.
bignum_print_dec | Prints the decimal string representation of bignum.
bignum_print_hex | Prints the hexadecimal string representation of bignum.

#### Memory management

Some functions return a pointer to the memory allocated by malloc.  
These memories must be freed by the user's program.  
Free the pointer to bignum with bignum_free.  

Some functions take a non-const pointer to bignum as an output argument.  
If the output argument is NULL, memory is allocated for the new bignum, and if it is a pointer to  
a bignum, the computation result is set in the memory held by that bignum.  
